By 2030, it'll be inconceivable to buy a
car and not expect it to drive itself.
Every single one of our cars, we want to
have the ability for it to operate at
very high levels of autonomy. Radars are
extremely cheap. LARS are very cheap,
but the really expensive part of the
system is actually the onboard
inference. In order to imagine more
expensive than any of the perception
stack, [music] my view is EV adoption in
the United States is a reflection of the
lack of choice. As consumers, we need
lots of choices. We need to have
variety. We selfidentify [music]
with the thing we drive. The world
doesn't need another Model Y. The world
needs another choice.
>> Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today I'm here with R.J. Scarring, the
founder and CEO of Rivian. We're here to
talk about their autonomy strategy,
proprietary chips, their coming R2
model, whether Americans want EVs, and
what our relationship to cars is going
to be in the age of AI. Let's get into
[music] it. AJ, thanks so much for doing
this. Thank you for having me.
>> So, Rivian's already uh an incredibly
cool company. How did you decide it was
going to become an autonomy company?
When did that happen?
>> I mean, from the beginning, we thought
of it as a transportation and mobility
company. And in fact, even before Rivian
became Rivian, when I was thinking about
what's the first products, it was
unclear what kind of car would be, but
or even if it was a car, but it was
always clear we wanted to be at the
front edge of helping to redefine what
does it mean to have access to personal
transportation. And so autonomy is
always been part of the strategy, but
it's now fully coming to life with the
technology that we're building.
>> And when you think about the function of
Rivian, there's transportation, there's
also the experience. Like when how long
ago did you guys start investing in the
autonomy strategy here?
>> Yes, we launched R1 in um very end of
2021.
>> Mh.
>> And we used what I'll broadly
characterize like a 1.0 approach to
autonomy. So we had a perception
platform. We used a a third party, a
front-facing camera that was essentially
a third-party solution that then plugged
into an overall framework that we built,
but it was all rules based. So, the
camera is fed a rulesbased planner. The
planner would then make a bunch of
decisions around the feeds from the
perception. And it was, you know, the
moment we launched, we knew it was the
wrong approach, but it was the thing we'
started working on uh well before the
launch. And so, at the end of 2021,
beginning of 2022, we made the decision
to completely reset the platform. And
>> was that hard as a decision?
>> No, cuz it was so clear when we made we
made the when you're building something
like this, you're you recognize you're
going to spend many many billions of
dollars creating it. So we knew this
like at the core of transportation is is
driving and at the core of that is a
shift to having the vehicle be capable
of driving itself. And so we made the
decision to redo it like clean sheet,
you know, no legacy of what we had built
in the Gen One. And that first launched
from a hardware point of view in the
middle of 2024. Uh so that was with our
gen two vehicles. You know, not a single
line of shared code, not a single piece
of common hardware on the perception on
the compute side. And uh and then we had
to build like the actual data flywheel.
So we had to grow the car park to build
enough of a data flywheel to then start
to train the model. And what we showed
in our economy day late last year, late
in 2025, was the beginnings of a series
of really like super exciting steps of
how this is going to grow and expand. I
say this all the time. I I think of not
just for Rivian, but I'd say for the
auto industry in general, the last three
years compared to the next three years
are going to look very different. So the
rate of progress that we saw in autonomy
between let's say 2020 and 2025 or 2021
and 2025 and what we're going to see
between today and let's say 2029 2030
are they're completely different slopes
and that really comes back to you know
entirely new architectures now being
used to develop self-driving actually
truly AI architectures whereas before
these were not AI architectures in the
in the true sense they were they were
using machine vision but really
rules-based environments that we defined
as as humans, you know, we codified
them, which is very different than how
Apple today.
>> You might actually have perfect timing
here in that uh I got to be part of
investing in sort of the first wave of
independent autonomy bets that were
working with the OEMs at my last
investing firm. Okay. But this is
>> I would say 8 10 years ago.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh as you mentioned there's several
architectural revolutions since then.
Yeah. And so for companies to make that
shift from you know we're going to have
these separate perception and planning
systems to more endtoend neural networks
>> I I asked because I felt it was actually
quite a hard decision for people in
choosing their partners and from a from
a technical perspective.
>> Well I think it I mean you can see it.
So there's if you go back to the very
beginning of the idea of self-driving,
a lot of effort, a lot of spend happened
for companies to build these rules-based
environments and to build these more
classic systems. And when transform
based encoding came along, you just a
couple years ago and it shifted very
rapidly to it was clear that the future
state was going to be neural net based.
It was hard because if you're a company
that built all these systems, it's like
do I keep investing what I had? what do
I what do I do with all this work that
was was built before? And the reality is
is a lot of it is the vast majority of
it is going to be pure throwaway. Um
because it wasn't like a gradual shift.
It was a complete rethink of how things
are architected.
>> How did you decide that this was going
to be a an in-house effort versus a
partner effort that given most people
who made cars said we're going to go
partner or buy something here? I I guess
the emotional philosophical is on things
that are really important, we've taken
the approach of vertically integrating
them. So electronics, our software, all
the high voltage systems in the vehicle.
So things like motors, inverters,
uh all the power electronics, these are
all things we we develop and build
inhouse. And in a few cases, you know,
we had to start with something that was
either off the shelf or partially off
the shelf. But today, all of that's
completely in-house. And in the case of
self-driving, we knew that long-term it
needed to be something that was
developed internally. We started as I
said with a mobilecentric solution,
which a lot of folks did, right?
>> Particularly in like you that 2015 to
2021 time frame. But when you really
look at what's necessary to to be
successful in a neural net based
approach,
>> there's a core set of ingredients that
very few people have and I think we
uniquely have them. So first and
foremost, you need to have complete
control of a perception platform. You
have all the everything that the the the
system is capable of observing, whether
that's cameras, radars, or LAR, or some
combination of all three. You need to
have control of that. Meaning there's no
intermediary company that's like
processing some of the information. And
so that's powerful because you can then
feed raw signals into your system. The
system needs to be capable of triggering
unique or interesting or noteworthy
events that you can then use to train
that triggered. you know those triggered
moments need to then be captured saved
on the vehicle and then when the when
the time arises where you have Wi-Fi
ideally send it up and the reason I say
Wi-Fi these are this is a large a lot of
data so you could of course do it over
LTE but it's expensive as you have to
have a really robust data architecture
on the vehicle then you need to be able
to send it off offboard and use that
with a lot of uh training so with a lot
of GPUs to train a model companies that
are either developing independent
solutions that are not a car company
they typically don't have access to the
type of mileage that we do. So that the
huge amount of data that our vehicles
generate. Uh if you're developing this
from a sensor set point of view, you
typically don't have the vehicle
architecture and the vehicle car park.
So we just came to the view that we have
all these ingredients to do it really
well. And [clears throat]
>> it's like not an optional thing. It's
the companies that do this well will
exist. The companies that don't do this
well,
>> like I feel really strongly this. They
will not exist. They will shrink to
shrink to nothing. asmtoically approach
you know zero.
>> You think it can only be delivered in
really a vertical vertically integrated?
>> No, I think I think there's more than
one less than five companies outside of
China that have the necessary
ingredients to do this. The capital, the
GPUs, the the car park with you know
enough vehicles generate enough data. I
say more than one less than five. It's
probably
>> and the control of that whole training
loop you're doing.
>> It's probably like more than one less
than three maybe four. Like there's very
small number of companies that can do
this. I think the uni unique spot we are
in time right now is the 1.0. Can
>> I ask explicitly then? It's you, it's
Tesla, it's Whimo. Is that the three?
>> I would include all three of those.
Yeah. And there's maybe one or two
others in [clears throat] in the mix.
But I think
>> the challenge is you have to look at the
not just the moment in time for
performance where we are today.
>> Do you have the ingredients to continue
making progress at a very high like high
rate over the next four or five years?
>> And so a lot of the solutions that are
more 1.0 based and and are sort of stuck
in that framework I think have a like a
truly a 0% chance of progressing to be
competitive with a neural net based
approach and the neural net based
approach does take a lot of times you
have to build ton of inference on the
you have to have either buy it or build
it a lot of inference we decided to
build it so we built an in-house chip to
do this you need to have a car parked
this large
>> you just mean enough onboard compute to
actually run the models the car yeah in
the vehicle and so you could you could
buy that. Of course, Nvidia makes those.
Um, but you need to be able to do that
at scale and have it in every car. And
so, we took the decision to make our
chip in house.
>> Is that more a capability uh decision or
a cost decision?
>> It's a cost. And then like we want to
have it on everything. So, every single
one of our cars, we want to have the
ability for it to operate at very high
levels of autonomy. And so, we design,
spec, and build the cameras.
>> Radars are extremely cheap. LARS are
now, you know, very, very cheap. But the
really expensive part of the system is
actually the onboard inference.
>> And so that's like an order imagine more
expensive than any of the perception
stack. I think people focus on the
perception because it's the things we
can like visualize,
>> right?
>> But the brain is actually the most
expensive part. And so we brought that
in house as a way to remove cost from
the system so that we can easily deploy
this on on every car.
>> You are taking like a sort of know
step-by-step approach to levels of
autonomy. Yeah. and Rivian, how do you
think about um how quickly you approach
like level four or you know the safety
case around each of these things? How
fast your team goes against this?
>> Yeah, I mean this is even this question
is unique because just a few years ago
20 2019 2021 even there was like very
like very clearly delineated
ways to approach autonomy. There was a
level two approach which was camera
heavy maybe with a few radars
>> and then there was a level four approach
which was of course had cameras but had
a lot of lightars. It was sort of
inconceivable to think of the level two
system becoming a level four and
similarly the level four system was way
overbuilt to even like conceivably think
about putting that on every consumer
vehicle.
>> Well, you didn't want the the big want
all these parts. Yes. The tens of
thousands of dollars of perception. So
what's happened is those two worlds just
I think have just started to very
clearly merge where the delineation
between a level two, a level three and a
level four um in terms of perception and
and in terms of compute has started to
fade and it's now essentially just
remove like how capable the system is at
addressing all these corner cases.
And you know, this is what's hard for a
consumer to recognize. If you're driving
a level two system or a level three
system or a level four system for
99.9999,
like three or four nights, feels
identical,
>> right?
>> The difference is like the fifth or
sixth or seventh nine on that is these
like extreme corner cases. And so I
think it's actually led to a lot of
confusion where you'll be in a level two
system like the car could drive itself
and you're like yes it can under
>> most of the roads conditions except
these very unique corner cases. And so
to your point on safety cases, the
question then becomes is like how
confident are we in the system
capability in covering these really
obscure unlikely rare events which of
course if they're not covered well it
can lead to really uh you know terrible
outcome you know the vehicle in a bad
collision and so that's where the neural
net based approach has just changed
things a lot. So the the the
capabilities are so much stronger and
the ability now I think for us to deploy
on a lot more vehicles have a car park
that's very large. So we went from, you
know, few years ago state-of-the-art was
you'd have a test development fleet of
maybe maybe a few hundred vehicles,
maybe maybe like high hundreds of
vehicles to now like thousands and
thousands. Every single car on the road
is part of your data fleet that's
identifying these unique corner cases
and then running the model against them
to test.
>> And now of course we're simulating those
unique cases and we can do a lot there.
So the just the whole nature of it's
changed so dramatically that I mean I
think by by 2030 it'll be inconceivable
to buy a car and not expect it to drive
itself. You know maybe that's sooner.
Maybe like we hope it's sooner like
we're targeting a little sooner than
that but certainly in like a very very
near future like that will become a
mustave in a car. Sort of like it's hard
to imagine buying a car today without
airbags or buying a car today without
air conditioning. Um these things at a
moment in time were optional. I think in
not too not too much time, couple years,
it'll be hard to concede buying a car
that can't drop you at the airport or
pick up your kids from school.
>> I would argue that right now um most of
the biggest car makers do not have the
ingredients that you described to make
this a reality.
>> So, do you think that um that's going to
play out in the market where like
autonomy will be so important as a
driving feature, core feature of the car
that there's just going to be a big
market share shift to those those who
can figure it out. I I know you're
biased here, but I'm like,
>> "No, no, no. I think it's it's it's a
hard question to answer." So, I think
it's uh I I always characterize like
this.
>> I think it's inconceivable
for a car company to continue to operate
at scale like mass market. I think very
niche enthusiast realms sure, but like
at scale
>> without a software defined architecture,
which is even before you get to
autonomy, just like can you do OTAAS? Do
you have control of a of a
>> sorry can you define software define
architecture?
>> Yeah, that's like before we even get to
autonomous like these are like basics.
So the way car
>> the core thesis of
>> Yeah. Yeah. So the way car electronic
systems have been designed and built and
have evolved with the exception of Tesla
and Rivian every car on the road has
what is uh called a domain based
architecture. So you could also call it
a functionbased architecture. So all the
functions across the vehicle, let's say
chassis control or door system control
or uh eight track, your air conditioning
system, all have little computers
associated with them, right?
>> What we call ECUs, electronic control
units. And in a modern car, you might
have 100 to 150 of these. And each of
these run their own little island of
software. And that little island of
software is written by a supplier, more
likely a supplier to the supplier. So
you go to a a tier one and they hire a
tier two who writes the code base to run
your H.
>> That's why it's impossible to debug like
a software system. And
>> it's also why it's really hard to do an
update. So imagine you have a 100
different islands of software written by
100 different teams uh that all have to
coordinate. And so if you want a
feature, you know, something that
manifests as a feature often involves
combining functions from different
domains.
>> So a simple one to visualize is when you
walk up to your car to get into it, you
want it to automatically unlock. You
want the HVAC to go to your preset. You
want your seats to adjust. You want it
to make an audible noise in the outside.
You want the lights to do something.
>> You probably want the the audio system
to do something. Those are all different
little ECUs in a traditional car. And
the coordination cost in it is really
high. It's very unlikely that a car
company will make a change to that
sequence because it involves
coordinating amongst maybe 10 different
players. In contrast on a on a approach
where you build a zonal architecture
where you have a very small number of
computers ideally you know one two maybe
three depending on the size of the car
that are running one operating system
that control everything. It's very easy.
So that sequence you could make up
updates to you know in a matter of
minutes maybe an hour you could change
the whole sequence of what happens you
walk up to the car issue an overear
update and it's very straightforward.
How often does Rivian update?
>> We do about one a month and uh it's
typically, you know, we add a couple of
new features, we add refinements to
existing features. We're listening to
like what customers are seeing and
asking for, but you know, every month
the car gets like notably better and
it's created this really amazing dynamic
where customers are like excited for the
for the update. They're like, when's the
next OTAA going to drop? The irony of
all this is these domain based
architectures goes back to like how do
we arrive at this it actually goes back
to fuel injection systems. So up until
early 1960s like every car on the road
was completely analog. So there's no
computers at all in the cars 100% analog
and the first computers were there to
drive the fuel injection systems and car
companies said this isn't a core
competency. Let's push that little
computer to run the fuel injection
system to a supplier and the supplier
will make that. You know, this is where
you saw things like the Bosch fuel
injection systems and never planned.
It's sort of like a field of weeds. Then
over the next like 7 60 70 years,
everything that became, you know,
computer controlled to any degree
suddenly started to have a little ECU, a
little computer associated with it. and
it just like grew into this absolute
disastrous mess that is a you know today
the the network architecture that's in
truly every car on the road with the
exception of of two companies that what
I just described is what underpins we
did a large uh software licensing deal a
$5.8 8 billion deal with Volkswagen
Group, the second largest car company in
the world to uh essentially leverage our
network architecture and ECU topology
uh for their you know all their various
brands and so it's an interesting final
point there on the on your first
question which is you know what happens
to market share so I think it's
inconceivable that car if to be at scale
that you don't have a software
definfined architecture that allows your
features to become better and better and
particularly thinking about how AI
starts to integrate into the features
that's number
Secondly, it's inconceivable to think
about a car company existing at scale
without the vehicles having very high
levels of autonomy. And so car companies
have a choice on both of those. They can
either accept that they're going to
shrink. That's choice one. Choice two is
go build it themselves, which is really
hard because they don't typically have
these skill sets. They're not software
electronics companies in terms of like
their organizational DNA. Or they can
find a third party to source it from.
And in both cases, there's not great
third parties to go to. Uh, and in the
case of autonomy, most of the third
parties that that did emerge over the
last 10 to 15 years tend to be very much
uh like classic rules-based what call
like AD or autonomous vehicle 1.0
solutions. And those work pretty well
for the business construct of selling
like a sensor and a function. But that
structure is really flawed when you want
to have like a large data flywheel and
it's constantly learning and evolving
and you're issuing updates constantly.
It's just um it's really hard to imagine
that with an arms length transaction.
And so I think the vertically integrated
stacks are going to naturally have some
big advantages.
>> So this might be an irrelevant question
but I'm curious. Um do you think that
the autonomy like the models that maybe
the three maybe the one maybe the five
companies that come up with this
>> uh develop are fundamentally different
over time because I spent a lot of time
in the AI ecosystem and the
>> let's say the languageoriented
foundation models like feel like they're
converging at this moment in time.
>> I I look at a Rivian I'm like
>> I don't know people adventure in that
thing. Do do you actually want it to do
different things, have different styles
or capabilities, or is it really just
like
as much autonomy as possible safety
case?
>> Well, first I This is a great this is a
great question. Um
>> I want my car to drive.
>> So like in the LLM world, it a lot of it
has converged because it's the training
data sets nearly the same. Yeah. So
we're taking the the breath of knowledge
that's contained on the internet and
we're training models off of that. In
the case of driving a vehicle, there is
no internet of driving data. And so you
need both a robust sensor set to be able
to capture the data and you need a car
park, you know, that has enough vehicles
in it. And so, of course, Tesla has the
largest car park of vehicles by far. Our
approach to this is we have a a higher
level of capability on our perception
stacks. We have better cameras, we have
radar, and of course with R2, we'll have
a LAR as well. A huge part of that
strategy is not only those cover corner
cases better. So the cameras have
incredible low light and you know bright
light performance. So the dynamic range
of the cameras is stronger. We have more
cameras, a lot more megapixels. Uh we
have radar which is great for object
detection. And the LAR which is it's a
very powerful tool for training the the
models. And so imagine
800 ft in front of us there's a little
speck into a camera. It's hard to figure
out what that is. And historically, what
we would do to train that is she would
have a LAR sitting on the vehicle on on
a like a ground truth fleet to help
train your cameras. Putting that on
every single one of our cars is turns
our entire fleet into this amazing
training platform, this data acquisition
machine. That was a core part of how we
thought about our strategy is we're
going to go, you know, not as heavy as
let's say a Whimo on perception,
>> but heavier than let's say Tesla to
build a really robust data platform on a
vehicle-by- vehicle basis and then with
a car park that's going to grow grow
significantly with the expansion with
R2. Yeah. So, I I think first and
foremost is there is no common internet
data. So the data sets that we're going
to be picking up though are going to be
very similar
>> but but you have to go acquire
>> but there's still different decisions
about what data you care about
acquiring. Yeah.
>> Well I think this is what to
[clears throat] like how does a car feel
ultimately it needs to be safe and the
differences in the way it drives or
feels are going to be more about like
what's the UI the user interface of it.
You know like even we just updated some
of our features. We have three settings
for how the vehicle drives. Mild,
medium, and spicy.
>> Spicy is the highest one. Yeah. And so
this is like a little bit more
aggressive over time and we've spent
time thinking about this. I think this
will start to become part of a key
decision is how does the vehicle behave
and there's work we're doing to to think
about how the vehicle can behave in a
way that against a set of heruristics
>> drives like you.
>> So overall the overall model is trained
on how to performs in a safe way but it
actually learns some of your you learn
some of your driving preferences and
creates a model around you. Of course,
in a world where you never drive the car
because you're just it's always driving
for you. There's a way for you to set.
I'd like it to aggressively change
lanes. I'd like it to reside in the
right hand lane. Like those kinds of
decisions and those are those are less
around the tech, more on what's the the
the product or the UI if you like.
>> Right. The ability to collect those
preferences.
>> Yeah. Preference based. And I think we
will see that
>> and that'll be a decision like a Tesla
makes that may be different than how
Rivian makes it. you know, it's hard to
say today.
>> Can we talk about what the R2 means for
like the company and some some of the
key design decisions here? I was just
talking to Jonathan, one of your lead
designers, about the constraints and,
you know, aiming for more mass market
and more volume here.
>> Uh, I mean, yeah, you said it. It's uh
so R1, it's a flagship product. It's
average selling price is around $90,000.
It's the best selling, the R1S is the
best selling premium electric SUV in the
country. So it's electric SUVs over
$70,000 and we're the bestselling
premium SUV electric or non-elect
electric in the state of California. So
it sells really well. You know, it out
sells everything in its class like a
model Tesla Model X. It out sells like 2
to1. But um because of the price, it's
just limiting in terms of how much
volume we can achieve with that
platform. And so R2 is the our first
truly mass market product with pricing
that's as we've said going to start at
45 and allows people that are in that
you know the average price of a new car
in the United States is $50,000 in that
like $45 to $55,000 price range. Uh I
think to have a really great choice and
to date there haven't been a lot of
great choices there. You know there's
I'd say there's like sort of singular
set of great choices with a model 3
model Y. Uh and of course that's that's
shown through the extreme market share
capture of 50% roughly market share goes
up or down but around that call it half
the EV market is Model 3 or Model Y. So
there's just such an untapped
opportunity to pull customers out of ICE
vehicles out of internal combustion
vehicles with a choice that's you know
has characteristics that are different
and unique relative to a Tesla. These
are like too substantive to be rapid
fire questions, but they're they're
important for me to ask you. Do
Americans want EVs? Like why haven't
they adopted them faster?
>> What?
>> Yeah, I think to the last question, I
think causality is always a hard thing
to,
you know, really understand, but let's
zoom out here. The the overall adoption
rate in the United States of EVs is
around 8%. The vast majority of vehicle
buyers are buying vehicles that are
under $70,000 with the average sale
price of about 50. And so if you look at
the number of vehicle choices you have
at a price point that's under $70,000
depending on the year. This of course
changes year to year. There's well in
excess of 300 different vehicle model
line choices. Putting aside trims and
performance packages but just in terms
of like overall vehicle types. And so
you can buy hatchbacks, minivans, SUVs,
you know, two-seaters, convertibles. I
mean there's a whole array of different
things you can buy. And in the EV space,
I think, and this is I think there's
more than one, less than three great
choices. And I'd say Tesla with the
Model 3, Model Y is absolutely one of
those. But there's so few choices that
if you are looking for a form factor
that's not a Tesla.
>> So, you think it's just missing product
set that people want? Yeah.
>> An extreme lack of choice is how you put
it. Um, like a shocking lack of choice.
And this is what gets into interesting
like corporate psychology, but because
of the success of the Model Y in
particular, the EV choices that do exist
that are outside of Tesla are often very
similar to a Model Y. Sure.
>> So if you were to like draw like an
outline, if you looked at the side view
profile of a lot of its alternatives and
draw a profile and then put it next to a
Model Y, it's almost identical. There's
a design sketch over here of basically
the Model Y and all its competitors.
>> They're all basically the same. It's
like if you want a Model Y, buy a Model
Y versus getting
>> you want something different.
>> Yes. You have all these companies are
trying to create their own version of
Model Y. And it's like it's unfortunate
because they didn't say, "Well, what can
we do that's unique and different?" And
so for us, we think the Model Y is a
great car. I've owned one. Many folks on
our team have owned one. But the world
doesn't need another Model Y. The world
needs another choice. And so I think uh
this is a reframing of just how we look
at transportation is it's such a big
space. It's such an area of personal
expression that we need as as consumers
we need lots of choices. We need to have
variety. We selfidentify with the thing
we drive. We just haven't had it. So I
think my view is the EV adoption in the
United States is a reflection of the
lack of choice. Uh there's one set of
really great choices with Model 3, Model
Y. I think there needs to be many more.
And so even looking at our partnership
with Volkswagen Group, a big motivator
for that which ties to our mission was
can we take our technology platform
>> and allow that to be expressed through a
variety of really interesting uh and
very story brands and different form
factors, different price points um of
course different segments. And I I think
the more choices we have, the more it's
going to lead to broader based adoption
of electric vehicles, which
creates, I think, a a very positive
level of momentum around the space. It's
it's worth noting on that point when we
look at how we develop a car like take
R2, we don't think of it as this is
someone who's going to buy an EV, let's
make it good. We think of it as let's
make the best possible vehicle, you
know, we can imagine. So incredible
performance and you know great range,
great uh dynamics, tons of storage and
the person buying it will be drawn into
electrification because the car is just
the best choice they have.
>> And we took that same view with R1 and
on R1 the vast majority of our customers
are first time ever owning an EV is a
Rivian which is which is really good. If
if all we were doing is moving customers
between
>> one or two brands it wouldn't be
accomplishing the goal. We have to
create new EV customers with products
that are so compelling that it just
draws people in.
>> So that leads into my very last question
here. I grew up thinking like a car is a
huge part of my identity.
>> Love cards. Drew them.
>> Still think they're pretty cool. Uh and
you know as they become more like
utilitarian services with uh the rise of
robo taxis as a concept of like you know
serving some of the function which your
car did before. How do you think our
relationship with cars changes or
vehicles over time?
>> I do think it's we're going to see a
shift. It's an interesting like
philosoph philosophical question. Why
why are cars such a part of our society
and
>> why do we have this affinity for them in
a way that we don't have that feeling
for other things in our life that are
really important? Like I don't I don't
look at my refrigerator and think I
really love that. Um in the same way
that I do with a car
>> and I think part of it is a car enables
personal freedom. It allows you to
explore. Um, it's it's something that
you not only ride in, but it be becomes
part of an expression of self. And I
think that's probably going to continue
to some degree, but it is going to
evolve. and and the way we look at it uh
with our products and even how we've
laid out and contemplated the the
purpose of the brand. We really look at
it through the lens of the vehicles and
the products we make need to both enable
people to go do the kinds of things you
know that they would hope to have
memories of years to come. So we we
often say the kinds of things you'd want
to take photographs of but more than
just enabling it which is a functional
requirement like can it drive their you
know can it fit the stuff your your pets
your gear your friends your your all of
your stuff more than just enabling it
can it inspire it and so can the brand
and the way we present what we're
building and the way we make design
decisions inspire you to go do the
things you want to remember for years to
come and so there's little like design
decisions we take that link to that. So
a flashlight in the door
>> is a invitation to explore. It's
invitation to go look at things the
night. Uh the
>> or the treehouse.
>> Yeah, there's exactly. So there's all
these little decisions you made
throughout the whole car that are just
designed to like engage that element of
inspiring people to go like imagine that
life they want to have.
>> Awesome. Thank you so much, [music] R.J.
Congrats on the R2 and uh on the
autonomy program.
>> Thank you.
Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our [music] YouTube channel
if you want to see our faces. Follow the
show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or
wherever [music] you listen. That way
you get a new episode every week. And
sign up for emails or find transcripts
for every episode at no-flyers.com.
[music]